Walking
In this lesson we will focus on
the character's walking action.
We will take as a reference
the bases of Richard Williams,
and we'll see how to apply them
in the animation in After Effects.
Until now, we had come here.
Then, I added the part where
the diamond is stored in the bag
and finally he walks.
For the part where
the diamond is stored,
I added this new precomp
in which we had our
design with this pose
and then I worked on the
transitions to get to the moment
in which the diamond
is stored in the bag.
I did this the same way
we have been doing so far,
animating everything with Paths
and took longer than it seems.
It's a pretty simple animation.
but there are very
complex arm movements
that go from side to side
and this makes it
consume a lot of time.
That's why it's good beforehand
try to think of quite
simple, flat animations,
and avoid this kind of thing, in
which an arm passes to the side,
ahead of the body, which
comes from the other side.
Anyway, if we see it frame by frame,
the animation is not
perfect, there are some jumps,
but, in the end, with the resource of
lowering the frames per second to twelve,
and with the camera,
which is a bit far away,
Those moments go unnoticed.
So, what we have to try to do
is to prioritize the
important movements for reading
and work the best we
can on the details.
To start with the walk,
We will do as we always do.
We import the layers of our design,
we separate the
layers, we assign colors
and relating what is needed.
In this case, we do not
match the legs to the torso
because we want the
torso to move up and down,
regardless of the legs.
When we have the
first pose already staged,
separated in layers, ready to animate,
We already have in this
case the contact pose,
which is the extreme moment,
in which the legs contact the floor.
To know how to continue with
the rest of our cycle poses,
We will look for a reference.
I recommend doing this always,
even if they already know
how to do a walking cycle
you can search for this reference
because it's good
to take it as a base.
If we search for "walk
cycle" in Google Images,
We will see many references
and ways to encourage this.
The one I recommend is one
of the most repeated images,
which is the one taken
from Richard Williams' book.
I recommend reading the book
But for now, using
this reference is fine.
We will save it and use
it in our After project.
We will import the
image to our project
to have it as a reference.
Let's put as a mode in Guide.
It doesn't matter if
it's on the other side,
what we want to know
is the number of poses
what we have to do and
the height of each one.
As in this reference,
In our walking cycle
we do these five poses,
of which, if you look, five and one
They are basically the
same, only it changes legs.
So, I placed these markers
equidistant, they all
have the same distance,
which in this case
are only four frames.
Do not worry about time
because then you can adjust it.
The important thing is
that they are equidistant.
So, the first pose we
have is the contact one.
For the next one, the
torso will go down a bit,
the foot will fully support
and the one behind gets up a little.
So, animating the vector
layers of the legs and torso,
we can try to imitate these poses,
adapting them to our character.
Let's try to solve in the
legs how the poses would be.
This is the Down pose, which
is when you get all the weight
After contact, you
receive it on this foot.
And it starts to rise.
Then follow the highest pose,
This foot is practically
stretched and the other begins to pass.
Follow this pose in
which the back foot
is almost forward, about to step on,
and finally we finish
in the next contact pose,
where we exchange both feet.
For the first cycle, I recommend
concentrate, above
all, first on the legs.
All other details, for
example this shadow line,
we hide it for now and
we will add it at the end,
when we are happy with the cycle.
In addition to adding leg keyframes,
that in this case, for
example, I had to add one more
to be able to make that
transition a bit more real
at the time I was touching the floor,
because otherwise, if
at the time of contact
when the cue touches the
floor, we move on to this moment,
Without that intermediate
keyframe, the foot flies a little.
So, I wanted to add it
to make it touch the floor
and by the way I gave some
flexibility to the instep.
In addition to leg movement,
We will cheer our torso vertically.
If we see the curve, it is very
similar to the curve I describe here.
At the contact points
it remains the same,
the height of the first contact
point is the same as the second.
Then lower in the support position
and start climbing to the highest pose
which is where the front
foot is about to support.
If we see this in cycle,
We already have a walking cycle.
Now, for this to be a walking cycle
that transmits a true
displacement of the character,
We will consider some things.
In addition to all the
details that we will add later,
like bounces in the
hair, the line here,
and details in the way the feet move,
but most importantly,
when a character is walking,
at all times when your feet
are in contact with the floor,
they have to move at the same speed,
since what we are going
to do is a cycle in place
to which we will
later relate to a null
That will have a displacement.
So, what we will do is create a null
that will have a
movement in X to the left,
which is the direction in
which our character moves.
Now, to know how
much we have to move it,
One trick is to add some guide layers.
What I did was add a
layer for each foot
to have as reference the
location where each foot steps.
In addition to this, all
kinds of guides we can use
To facilitate the construction of
walking cycle, they will come in handy.
For example I also
like to paint a color
the back leg to
differentiate it from the front leg.
We are going to keep it that
way throughout the walking cycle.
until we are happy
and we just hide it.
So, we have this
greener color for the back leg
and this more blue
for the one in front.
Now that we have our
five poses located,
what we are going to
do is adjust the foot
to ensure that it
travels at floor speed.
This null has a constant speed in X.
What I did was also add an expression,
which is continuous
LoopOut, which extends that speed
in which we define those two nodes
and continue that
movement perpetually.
That serves so that, even
if we locate only two nodes
for one cycle, the null will
continue to move indefinitely.
So, so far we have
all the poses assigned,
more or less drawn, as they
correspond to this drawing,
and we are in the first
phase, which is the contact one,
we place these pictures on
each foot of the character.
We link these two
pictures with a new null.
This new null has no keyframe,
but it does have an expression in
the animation, in the position of X,
which is basically the
negative of the null below.
We have the main null,
which is what we are going to
link to our character in a moment.
Then we create this second null
that will go at the same speed as the
other but in the opposite direction.
Let's go to the expression
of the X position,
simply with Alt + Click.
What we do is put less in
the position of the other X.
He puts it anywhere, but
that doesn't interest us.
What interests us is
to have those two nulls
going at opposite speeds.
This can be done
without an expression.
and simply copying and pasting the
keyframes and turning them around.
The good thing about making the
expression is that, whenever we modify
One of the keyframes,
both will be modified.
This seems all very complex
but, in reality, it is only to
be able to generate these guides.
What we want with the guides is
that they move at constant speed.
Once with the null in
the reverse direction,
We are going to link
these two guides to that null.
With that, we adjust the
speed at which the null moves.
How do we do that?
I deleted the keyframe so as
not to have it as a reference.
Let's go to our last position,
and we will try to
make this blue square
be located where our new foot is.
Then we carry ...
the null to that position.
This gives us the speed at
which the character moves.
So, the good thing about
this is that we now have
these two reference frames
moving at constant speed.
We have to make sure that in
each of the intermediate poses
The feet match the reference guide.
Surely when we draw
them, as happened to me,
We had one foot first here or here.
If we make the feet match the square,
at all times, until
he gets up, like here,
we have to think that
they are a few steps,
some platforms on
which the character walks.
If we do that, we will make sure
that the feet move
at a constant speed.
Then we can link the entire character
which would basically
be the torso and legs,
since the rest of the
layers are linked to the torso.
If we link all those
layers with the main Null X,
We see that the character
begins to move across the floor.
We are going to hide the
guides so we don't get confused.
and we will see that
he is already walking.
That the feet move at a constant speed
makes, when we move it, in appearance,
The foot does not move, but
is in contact with the floor.
I'm going back and I'm
going to show you what's up
If we don't make that match.
For example, let's
take this foot there.
Maybe without the guides
and at a glance it looks good,
it may even look more like the pose,
but, I'm going to make
this a bit more exaggerated,
if later we make all our character
move at a constant speed,
linking it to Null X, we will see
that foot makes strange movements.
It has for example a drag
that is very disconcerting.
To avoid such things,
we use these guides.
Once we have legs and
torso with basic movement,
We could start adding detail.
But what we have is
not yet a complete cycle,
We simply have one leg.
The character is not inverted, yet.
We have to do that,
again, the front leg
Go forward again.
Thus we begin the cycle
again from the beginning.
If you want to make a
profile view of your character
Like the one in this
reference, you can copy the keyframes
from one leg and glue it to the other
or use the same movement as a
reference and it would look good.
But actually,
our character is with a
kind of three quarters,
It has a view that
is just a bit lateral.
So, when the front foot is forward,
It is affected by this
three-quarter perspective we have.
It doesn't look exactly
the same as when it's behind.
For this, what can come in handy
is to use some sketches
to have as a reference
and thus be able to make
sure how to locate the feet.
For that, let's go back
to Photoshop for a moment.
Let's go back to the
character's walking sketch.
This pose was fine, in which,
from this view three quarters,
we see a little of the right shoulder
and we see how the left leg is back.
And we see enough in
front of the character.
But, when you change your foot,
the view is a little different
because the character
takes the left part forward.
That makes the right arm hide a little
and that the shape of
the hip look different.
That's because on the walks
the character makes a
swinging movement with the shoulders
forward and backward,
with a slight inclination.
In addition, perspective
affects the way we see the feet.
The more front you see, the
less distance between your feet.
And, if we see it
from this point of view,
The point at which each foot
begins has a small separation.
If we draw a kind of bony here,
we will see that the hip makes
the feet a little more separated.
The legs, sorry.
If we superimpose the two drawings,
let's see that they
don't match, exactly.
When you have the right foot forward,
the feet are further apart
and when he has his right foot back,
the feet are perceived
a little more together.
We carry these two images as
a reference to have in After
and be able to cheer on that.